3rdparty/os_probe/README.md, before:

# os-probe for the Haiku Computer Operating System

This is the Linux "os-probes" file to detect Haiku OS and to automatically add
it to the GRUB boot menu.

First make sure the Haiku volumes you want to boot are mounted in Linux
(otherwise nothing gets detected).  Then copy the 83haiku file to your Linux
system in the os-probes subdirectory, usually (in Fedora at least) it will be
/usr/libexec/os-probes/mounted/83haiku  You can find older 83haiku versions in
the repository history, though the latest should be able to detect older
(pre-package manager) Haiku too.

Then regenerate the GRUB boot configuration file.  This will happen
automatically the next time your kernel is updated.  To do it manually,
for old school MBR BIOS boot computers, the command is
`grub2-mkconfig --output /boot/grub2/grub.cfg`

Computers using the newer UEFI boot system have a EFI/HAIKU/BOOTX64.EFI file
that you manually install to your EFI partition, and booting is done
differently, so you don't need this 83Haiku file for them.  See
[UEFI Booting Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/guides/uefi_booting/) instead.

The original seems to have come from Debian and was written by François Revol.
It's in the
[Debian os-prober package](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=os-prober).
There's also a big discussion about updating it in
[Debian Bug Report #732696](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=732696).

_AGMS20210921_

Commit message:

3rdparty/os_probe: Better wording, fix Beta+ version parsing.
Add lots of comments explaining things in the code.  Also fix parsing
of Beta updates which have hrev version numbers with an extra bit at
the end, like hrev12345_67.  Include architecture in the GRUB menu
title, so you can tell 32 bit and 64 bit installs apart.

3rdparty/os_probe/README.md, after:

# os-probe for the Haiku Computer Operating System

This is the Linux "os-probes" file to detect Haiku OS and to automatically add
it to the GRUB boot menu.  Mostly relevant for x86 BIOS based computers.

Copy the 83haiku file to your Linux system in the os-probes subdirectory,
usually (in Fedora at least) it will be /usr/libexec/os-probes/mounted/83haiku
You can find older 83haiku versions in the repository history, though the
latest should be able to detect older (pre-package manager) Haiku too.

Then regenerate the GRUB boot configuration file.  This will happen
automatically the next time your kernel is updated.  To do it manually,
for old school MBR BIOS boot computers, the command is
`grub2-mkconfig --output /boot/grub2/grub.cfg`
If it doesn't find the Haiku partitions, try manually mounting them in Linux
and rerun the grub command.

Computers using the newer UEFI boot system have a EFI/HAIKU/BOOTX64.EFI file
that you manually install to your EFI partition, and booting is done
differently, so you don't need this 83Haiku file for them.  See
[UEFI Booting Haiku](https://www.haiku-os.org/guides/uefi_booting/) instead.

The original seems to have come from Debian and was written by François Revol.
It's in the
[Debian os-prober package](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=os-prober).
There's also a big discussion about updating it in
[Debian Bug Report #732696](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=732696).
Latest version is now at https://git.haiku-os.org/haiku/tree/3rdparty/os_probe

_AGMS20210921_
